# Fundamental concepts: how do machines learn?

- _Deep Learning_ is a subset of machine learning, which is a field dedicated to the study and developmentof machines that can learn (sometimes with the goal of eventually attaining general artificial intelligence).

- _Machine learning_ is a subfield of computer science wherein machines learn to perform tasks for which they were not explicitly programmed. In short, machines observe a pattern and attempt to imitate it in some way that can be either direct or indirect (supervised or unsupervised).

## Machine Learning categories

Machine learning can mainly be categorized into four.

- Supervision
  - Superviced
  - Nonsuperviced
- Parametricism
  - Parametric
  - Nonparametric

### Supervised vs Unsupervised

- _Supervised machine learning_ is the direct imitation of a pattern between two datasets.  
  Examples.

  - Using the _pixels_ of an image to detect the _presence_ or absence of a cat.
  - Using the _movies you've liked_ to predict more _movies you may like_.
  - Using someone's _words_ to predict whether they're _happy_ or _sad_.

  It is useful for taking _what you know_ as input and quickly transforming it into _what you want to know_.

- _Unsupervised machine learning_, like supervised, it maps the _input_ dataset to some _output_ dataset, but unlike it, the _output_ dataset if not previously known or understood. They mainly report observed clusters in the input data; all forms of unsupervised learning can be viewed as a form os clustering.  
  Example

  Given a list of items, an Unsupervised ML would return a list of numbers where each number in the list would represent a group in which the item in the corresponding index in the input list belongs to. Eg  
  `[cat, dog, burger, child, salad] -> [1,1,2,1,2]`  
  You can clearly see that the 1's represent animals and 0's food.

### Parametric vs NonParametric

Whereas the previous section on _supervicion_ is about the _type of pattern_ being learned, _parametricism_ is about the way the learning is stored and often, by extension, the _method of learning_.

A _parametric_ model is characterized by having a fixed number of parameters, whereas a _nonparametric_ model's number of parameters is infinite (determined by data).

Parametric models tend to use trial and error, whereas nonparametric models tend to count.

_Nonparametric learning_ is a class of algorithm wherein the number of parameters is based on data (instead of predefined). This lends itself to methods that generally count in one way or another, thus increasing the number of parameters based on the number of items being counted within the data.

## Closer Look

### Supervised parametric learning

- _Supervised parametric learning_ machines are machines with a fixed number of knobs (that's the parametric part), wherein learning occurs by turning the knobs. Input data comes in, is processed based on the angle of the knobs, and is transformed into a prediction.

Note that the entirety of what the model has learned can be captured in the positions of the knobs at any given time.

#### Steps

Three steps performed for this type of learning:

- _Predict_ - Gather the stats and input data and feed to the machine which processes it and outputs a prediction.
- _Compare_ - Compare the machines prediction with the true expected value.
- _Learn_ - Adjust the knobs to lower/raise the machines prediction as per the expected output.

### Unsupervised parametric learning

Remember that unsupervised learning is all about grouping data. Unsupervised parametric learning uses knobs to group data. But in this case, it usually has several knobs for each group, each of which maps the input data's affinity to that particular group.

Next: [Chapter 3](./3.md)  
Home: [Index](./index.md)
