# Introduction to neural prediction: forward propagation.

From our paradigm _predict_, _compare_, _learn_; _predict_ will be our focus.

## Predict

A rule of thumb is, provide the machine with enough data as you would a human to make the same prediction.

Abstractly, the knobs we mentined earlier, are called weights.

The general path for prediction is

<pre>
data  ->  machine  ->  prediction
</pre>

Example: Predict the chance of a football team winning given their average number of toes.

<pre>
#toes  -> [ machine ]  ->  96%
</pre>

- _What is input data?_ It's a number you recorded somewhere in the real world. There are different methods to getting it; using feature extraction, instruments like thermometers to measure temperature and doing experiments in labs.

- _What is a prediction?_ It's the output of a neural network, given some input in which it is calculated from. Example, given the temperature, the neural network could predict if people will where light clothes.

- _Is this prediction always right?_ No, sometimes the neural network will make mistakes, but it can learn from them. Example, if it predicts too high, it can lower the weight (knob) so that it predicts less next time and vice versa.

- _How does the network learn?_ Trial and error! First, it tries to make a prediction. Then it sees whether the prediction was too high or low. Finally, it changes the weight (up or down) to predict more accurately next time it sees the same input.

### Predicting from a single datapoint

Neural network that can output a prediction given a single input datapoint can be found [here](/chapters/ch3/s1.py).

The weight scales its input; if weight > 1 it scales up else down or same if equal to 1.

The interface is simple, it accepts the input and weight (as knowledge). It uses the knowledge in the weights to interpret the information in the input data.

### Making a prediction with multiple inputs

Neural network that can output a prediction given multiple input datapoints can be found [here](/chapters/ch3/s2.py).


### Making a prediction with multiple outputs

Neural network that can output multiple predictions given a single input datapoint can be found [here](/chapters/ch3/s3.py)

### Predicting with multiple inputs and outputs

Neural network that can output multiple predictions given multiple input datapoints can be found [here](/chapters/ch3/s4.py)


### Predicting on predictions

This is a little advanced, but the general idea is that you can predict something given some other prediction.

Example, the _italicized_ text are predictions.

- If the _chance of raining_ is high, then the _chance of people wearing heavy clothes_ is also high.
  - But this can depend on if the people are out in the open or at home in their confy beds. With this, predicting this new prediction does not solely really on the chance of raining, it also needs to know where they are and in what state. The chance of raining can depend on a whole lot of factors, example: how cloudy it is, and season.
  - Hence, chance of people wearing heavy clothes is a prediction dependent on the prediction of raining and some other factors which could also be interpreted as predictions since where a person is depends on what job they do for example and what time it is.
- If the _chance of team members getting hurt_ is high then the _chance of the team winning_ is low due to reduced performance.

In the above examples, we are predicting new values given some other predictions which we don't really care how they were computed, we only know what they represent. As we had seen earlier, predictions can have a variable number of inputs and outputs, but the important thing is that a prediction states something that can be used to state more.

And also, some predictions cannot be easily computed with only one layer of predictions, example, predict that a picture is a picture of a cat, we need as many inputs as the resolution of the picture which are processed by inner layers called hidden layers until we get to the other side, the output layer, which for this case will be one output, yes or no.

Predicting on predictions can lead to a whole dozen of layers from the raw input to the final prediction with the inner layers being predictors based on predictions, amazingly, the right weight configuration yields some mind boggling predictions.

Next: [Chapter 4](./4.md)  
Home: [Index](./index.md)
